#summary Database Administration
#labels Phase-Design,Phase-Implementation,Featured

== Introduction ==

All XML data stored in XBird is organized into a hierarchy of _collections_. 

A collection is exactly what its name suggests: it contains any number of XML documents, and can in addition contain its own child collections, thus providing a hierarchy. 
_A collection is directly mapped into a directory_ of the underlying file system. 

The "root" collection is also called the Database. It is special in that:
  * It has no parent as the name tells.
  * The database root directory is specified through _xbird.database.datadir_ property in [http://code.google.com/p/xbird/source/browse/trunk/xbird-open/main/conf/xbird/config/xbird.properties xbird.properties]. By the default, `java.io.tmpdir'/xbird is used for the directory. 

== Configuring a Database ==

The _xbird.database.datadir_ property can be overrided by putting your modified  _xbird.properties_ file on the directory where System.getProperty("user.dir") directs.

{{{
// You can simply ask the system for the “java.io.tmpdir” and "user.dir" properties as following:
String tmpDir = System.getProperty("java.io.tmpdir");
String userDir = System.getProperty("user.dir");
System.out.println("java.io.tmpdir: [" + tmpDir + "], user.dir: [" + userDir + "]");
}}}

== Importing Documents ==

=== Importing documents by command line ===

Importing XML documents into database is easily accomplished by command line scripts: 
[http://code.google.com/p/xbird/source/browse/trunk/xbird-open/bin/command.sh command.sh] for Unix and [http://code.google.com/p/xbird/source/browse/trunk/xbird-open/bin/command.bat command.bat] for Windows.

These scripts are included in [http://code.google.com/p/xbird/downloads/list xbird-xx-src.zip]. We assume the decompressed directory as $XBIRD_HOME in this document. 

The usage of these scripts is quite simple. 
{{{
[Unix]
# import an XML document into "/test1" collection.
 $ ./command.sh -col test1 import document /pathto/some.xml
# import XML documents in /pathto/folder into the root (i.e., "/") collection.
 $ ./command.sh import document /pathto/folder

[Windows]
# import an XML document into "/test1" collection.
 $ command.bat -col test1 import document C:\pathto\some.xml
}}}

The above command creates the following files:
{{{
xbird.database.datadir              # root collection 
└─test1                                # '/test1' collection
        some.xml.dtms                  # some.xml document
        test1.dtmp                       # properties of collection
        test1.qnames                   # manages qnames of the documents in 'test1' collection
        test1.strc                        # manages texts (textchunks) of the documents in 'test1' collection
        test1.strc.cache              # cache file for text chunks
        test1.strc.di_h                 # index of the string chunks
}}}

== Deleting documents or collections ==

Just delete directories or some.xml.* files in the database directory !

== Accessing to documents in collection ==

The fn:collection function returns a sequence of documents in the specified collection.

It takes the syntax: 
*[http://www.w3.org/TR/xpath-functions/#func-collection fn:collection($arg as xs:string?) as node()*]*

{{{
# To retrieve the "some.xml" document in "test1" collection.
fn:collection("/test1/some.xml")

# To retrieve all documents in "test1" collection.
fn:collection("/test1")
}}}

You can pass a regex expression in [http://java.sun.com/docs/books/tutorial/essential/regex/ Java's regex syntax] to $arg.
{{{
# To retrieve every documents which name start with a prefix 's' and end with '.xml' in the collection 'test1'. 
fn:collection("/test1/s.*.xml")
}}}