#summary XBird Distributed Query Processing.
#labels Phase-Design,Featured

XBird/D introduces a distributed query extention to XQuery called XBird Distributed Query, _BDQ_ for short.

== Syntax ==

{{{
   BDQExpr ::= "execute at" [ VarRef "in" ] Expr "{" Expr "}"
}}}

== Usage ==

=== Configuring a service ===

The distiributed query processor, XBird/D in short, is configurable through [http://code.google.com/p/xbird/source/browse/trunk/xbird-open/main/conf/xbird/config/xbird.properties xbird.properties].

{{{
# The port number which XBird/D uses.
# This effects host:port as appears in later.
xbird.rmi.registry.local.port=1099

# The identifying name of the services: 
#   name(,name)*
# caution: name should not start with slash.
xbird.rmi.engine.name=xbird/srv-01
}}}

*Note:* _You can override the settings by putting xbird.properties on the directory where System.getProperty("user.dir") specifies._

=== Starting a service ===

Just run a server as in [http://code.google.com/p/xbird/wiki/RunningAndAccessingDatabase this document] where the remote query executed.

We assume here the serive _xbird/srv-01_ is run at port 1099 on the host _knuth.naist.jp_.

== Example Query ==

{{{
declare variable $remote-endpoint := "//knuth.naist.jp:1099/xbird/srv-01";
declare function local:remote-eval($colname) 
{
  execute at $remote-endpoint {
	for $a in fn:collection($colname)/site/closed_auctions/closed_auction
	where $a/price/text() >= 40
	return $a
  }/price
};
local:remote-eval("/repos/xmark1.xml")
}}}

Nesting distributed queries as in [http://code.google.com/p/xbird/source/browse/trunk/xbird-open/examples/distributed/mapreduce1.xq mapreduce1.xq] can also be accepted.

== Reference ==
  * [http://jp.citeulike.org/user/myui/article/2810257 Makoto Yui, Jun Miyazaki, Shunsuke Uemura and Hirokazu Kato. ``XBird/D: Distributed and Parallel XQuery Processing using Remote Proxy'', In Proc. ACM SAC (DTTA track), pp. 1003-1007, 2008.]